docs: Modify Browser SPA docs for soft nav 2.1 feature GA (#21716)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/get-started/browser-spa-v2.mdx

---
title: Browser SPA monitoring 2.1
metaDescription: "The new browser SPA monitoring capability is a streamlined way to monitor your users' experience and app performance."
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-09-04
---

<Callout variant="important">
    This feature is deploying (slowly) via feature flag, with an eventual goal of replacing the existing browser SPA experience by default.  (There is no option to select which new SPA version you get. You'll always simply receive the latest.)
    </Callout> 

## SPA 2.1

> Long task consideration is introduced as a replacement for old SPA's extensive callback tracking and to somewhat backfill the `jsDuration`, `timeToSettle` and `timeToLastCallbackEnd` attributes of AjaxRequest event(s) associated with a BrowserInteraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long task consideration has been introduced to replace the extensive callback tracking used in older Single Page Applications (SPA). It also serves to backfill `jsDuration`, `timeToSettle` and `timeToLastCallbackEnd` attributes of AjaxRequest event(s) associated with a BrowserInteraction.
```

For _select_ native browser objects wrapped by the agent's `nrWrapper`, their callbacks will be timed. Those over 50ms in duration (long task) can extend a BrowserInteraction. In 2.0, the feature followed a soft navigation heuristic to determine when an interaction occurred naturally. Now, the interaction will additionally wait and extend its duration until a period of no long task for 5 seconds, and its end time will be re-adjusted accordingly.

> In 2.0, AjaxRequest associated with interactions did not report or track any callback timing, so the aforementioned 3 attributes were nullified. Now, `XMLHttpRequest` (but not `fetch`) that is part of an interaction and has event listeners which result in long tasks will have those 3 attributes set to reflect long callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, in version 2.0, AjaxRequest associated with interactions did not report or track callback timing, resulting in nullified values for the three attributes mentioned above. With the current update, `XMLHttpRequest` (but not `fetch`) that is part of an interaction and includes event listeners causing long tasks will have `jsDuration`, `timeToSettle`, and `timeToLastCallbackEnd` attributes updated to reflect the timing of long callbacks.
```
